


Serbian language support package for GNU aspell
0.02, 11/09/2005


Created and released by Goran Rakic, <gox at devbase dot net>. Package is released under 
GNU LGPL license (copy of license is included in package) and available on location 
http://www.srpski.org/aspell/

Word list also includes 133986 words from Corpus of Contemporary Serbian Language built on 
Faculty of Mathematics, University of Belgrade, with total size of 25MW created by Natural 
language processing group, Faculty of Mathematics. Word list is given under GNU LGPL license 
in order to create GNU aspell and MySpell Serbian language dictionary. Additionally, correctness 
of 284420 words from corpus formed from texts published on Internet, is checked by comparing 
it with Corpus of Contemporary Serbian Languages. With that, 150080 words are marked as 
potentionally incorrect. I am thankful to prof. Dusko Vitas from Faculty of Mathematics for all 
help and given resources. You can find more informations about Corpus of Contemporary 
Serbian Language at URL http://korpus.matf.bg.ac.yu

I am thankful to Viktor Kerkez <alef at uns.ns.ac dot yu> for given word list. 281865 words,
including 762 new words that are included in this release only because of it, are founded
in his word list.

Also, I am thankful to Tanja Samardzic from Faculty of philology, University of Belgrade for
her suggestions and all help regarding word validation. Some of suggestion are already applied
to this release, but better part will be applied in next releases.

Dictionary in this version still doesn't use any of affix rules and contains 343242 words and their 
forms.

Package contains three dictionaries (Cyrillic, Latin and combined) and two word lists (Cyrillic and 
Latin). Combined dictionary is default. If you want to spellcheck only text written with Cyrillic or 
Latin script you can use "--variety" option. Words are encoded in UTF-8 code page, normalized 
to special 8bit code page l-sr. GNU aspell files l-sr.cset and l-sr.cmap are included in this 
package. You can find description of this code page in file misc/l-sr.txt. Support for accented
vowels is built in, but in current release dictionary does not have any words accented vowels.
Author it thankful to Kevin Atkinson, GNU aspell maintainer for help in creation of code page. 

I will be glad if You, as a users show any initiative in intention to correct errors in words 
from dictionary or adding more new words to dictionary. Opening of new pages on package location
where users will be avaible to import theirs personal dictionaries, and to take part in word
validation is planned.

You can contact author of this package on email stated in header of this file.